a car would stop, the number one guy would go running up and say, going to Houston or wherever, and the guy would say, get in, and he'd say, is there room for anyone else?
And ask him, and he would say either yes or no, and if, how many, sir?
And that's the number that he would call up if there were any.
And you always,
tried to ask them, tell them where you were going and ask them somewhere or another where they were going because you didn't want to get out in some of these towns.
For instance, if you're headed north, you did not want out in Calvert.
And you would, if you were going to Dallas, there were two ways to go, one up through Calvert and so on.
And the other one was to go over to Highway 75, either Madisonville or Buffalo.
And one time over there, I caught a ride in Accord automobile.
Yes, sir, Accord, all the way to Dallas.
And that was the fanciest car that I had ever seen and probably ever will see, ride in.
But you would essentially, if the person stopped,
And if he was going where, trying to go, or anyone else in the group was trying to go, you went with them regardless of the car.
It wasn't, you know, I don't want to ride in that old Ford.
I want a Buick or whatever.
I don't know whether anyone ever took advantage of that or not, but that was not the custom.
And you would always wear your uniform.
People really had no qualms of picking up Aggies at all.
And I met some interesting people and helpful people.
And going to Houston one time, I had a guy took me to the same block that my brother lived in where I was going.
And, you know, just some good people.
The Aggies were helpful if anything happened, a flat tire or anything, they would get out and help.
And he simply changed the tire for him, for the person.
Very respectful of any women that were in the automobile, whether they were adult women or young girls or whatever.
We were just on your P's and Q's with those people.
Did you ever hear of any bad experiences in Aggie head hitchhiking?
Not really bad.
Someone told me one time that one guy made the
sexual advances toward him.
But I don't know what happened, but nothing.
The guy apparently backed off.
Where in Dallas was the place to catch a ride coming south?
I don't know.
I didn't go to Dallas.
Where'd you get off to go to Forney?
Oh, you were saying coming south.
That's what I mean.
Okay.
But going in, I would go on into the inside of town and catch a streetcar and go out on, but coming south, no, my folks would take me over and put me off in Highway 75 in
Wilmer or Hutchins.
I can't remember which one.
Not in Dallas.
That's my only point.
Oh, okay.
Because I'm assuming there must have been a magic location for Aggies to catch rides somewhere in downtown Dallas.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure that there was, but I just... Normally, what was the time it took for you to get back and forth hitchhiking from here to Forney?
Half day?
Four or five hours.
Not much longer than it takes to drive now.
Let's see, student organizations, singing cadets, were they around then?
Yeah, there were some, but not like it is now.
I hear you coughing in here, probably getting dry.
What about the Aggie Band?
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
There was another band.
Can I look a minute?
Mm-hmm.
You want to cut it off a minute?
Let me kind of look.
Go ahead.
You had the, in the student organization, you had to buy academic fields, and maybe one of the,
Judging teams from the agriculture was gained a little more recognition, but most of them were just about equal and I know in the accounting society we would just gather and
hear some discussion of a current event or change in some accounting policies or something like that.
And the prestige was, I guess, would be the Ross Volunteers.
They were highly recognized, highly visible.
Was it hard to get in the RVs then?
I guess so, I couldn't get, I didn't get in it.
How about hometown clubs, did they exist then?
Oh yes, I had hometown clubs.
What purpose did they serve?
I don't really see that they served much of a purpose.
It was essentially a friendship type club and maybe
some recruiting type benefits, but, and the same way they tied in with the Mother's Club, but I'm trying to look through here and find the band, I mean, not the Aggie band, entertainment band, a dance band, but I can't find it, but there was one,
Seemed like Buck Wires was a part of it.
I can't quite remember now, but there was a student band like that.
Yell leaders, what did people think about the Yell leaders in those days?
Was that high prestige?
Oh yes.
Buster Keaton and Foots Bland were our Yell leaders, and they were well recognized, well respected, and
kind of looked up to.
They were good guys.
They were good positions.
And senior boots.
When, how, where, how much?
Mine cost, I think, a little over $100.
That was a lot.
And
I don't remember that we did what they now do of the juniors having them and hiding them in their closets or anything like that.
When it came time to wear them, you just went out and bought them or somebody, you got them a hand-me-down from somebody else or whatever and went on from there.
Yes, that was a big deal to get those senior boots and to get your Aggie ring.
On the boots, where'd you get yours?
Hollick's.
Brand new.
Yeah.
Do you remember how you acquired that $100?
Oh, I worked in the oil fields in the summertime and holidays and everything else.
I worked for an Aggie who had been a yellow leader, Milo Abercrombie.
And whenever I would go to Houston and wanted to work, I'd go out to the warehouse and my pay started then when I got to the warehouse, period.
And if they didn't have a truck,
I'd do some work around the yard or whatever.
And 75 cents an hour.
And I think my last year it was a dollar and a quarter an hour, which is an unheard of wage.
And there were a couple of other aggies that worked there too.
So by that time, and all of my brothers were,
Well, not well off, but financially stable.
And they would help with my tuition room and board.
And they knew that I would, it would be nice to have boots, and that was not a problem of my paying for it.
And let me just say another thing.
I could have graduated at midterm of my senior year.
But I had an advance contract, and my oldest brother would not listen to that.
He said, no, you go on and finish that fifth year, get your commission, and go on from there, and we'll think nothing about it.
And so I was, and I got,
I became a battery commander my last year here and I got the cleaning concession for my battery.
And so I had no competition and got all of my clothes cleaned for free and a commission on all the rest of it.
Describe the responsibilities of being a battery commander.
Well,
The way I took it, and I mean this sincerely, that I was responsible for those freshmen.
I didn't much look out for the other guys.
I viewed my responsibility primarily as take care of the freshmen.
I don't mean to keep them out of any hazing or anything like that, but, or at least no minor hazing.
And if any of them were perturbed or anything, I'd go and talk with them.
Buck Wires has stated, I don't know whether it's a fact or not, but he has stated that I could unpack a freshman's footlocker faster than he could pack it, trying to keep them here.
Yeah, you were responsible for the orderliness, particularly in falling in and you're marching to meals and having an upperclassman there to go with them, march with them.
And also to be around, if you're not in class, to be around
when there was to be an inspection.
I remember one time Colonel Beasley came inspecting for boards and my roommate Leland Beard was there too and I started him off across the hall in Spot Talbot's room and went on down that side and then came back to our room and in the meantime Leland had put the board out under the bushes.
And, but also trying to follow the orders that came down.
For instance, senior year, they repainted the water tower because it had all of the unit signs up there.
And thou shalt not put any more signs up there.
Two days later, 3rd headquarters battery field artillery up there.
I don't, I did not try to find out who did it.
I did not try to find out at all.
And I did not, I was not questioned by people in the ROTC department either.
But just the overall orderliness of your outfit and
Just a freshman I took on.
What about an example that you can recall that you're proud to describe of where you think maybe you made a difference in a young man's life?
Someone had a problem and you helped him.
There was, I believe his name was Fish Parker, was having some problems.
I don't remember exactly how I helped him, but I do know that I talked with him.
And then there was somebody else, I can't recall his name, who got homesick.
And back in those days, you didn't go home much except on Thanksgiving.
But I gave this kid a pass.
I said, you are homesick, and I can't do anything about it, and I understand, or I don't know the words, but, and I just think you ought to go home, and I'll give you a pass.
So he went home, and I don't think he came back until sometime Monday afternoon, but he came back, and that was all there was to it, and he stayed on.
Did your footlocker get stolen as they now do?
That didn't happen then?
No, we didn't.
Not in our outfit anyway.
Do you remember any pranks that your outfit attempted to play on you?
They hid my sword one time and
stuffed toilet paper down in my boots.
So, you know, and when you get in a hurry, it gets aggravating.
And when you're due for a parade and you can't find your sword, you know.
But just a couple, three of those like that.
I'm sure that they rearranged my footlocker at times.
burned out a light bulb.
Do you remember anything about when you bought your senior ring?
Was that a proud moment?
Oh yes, very proud and that was the one that I took the extra money to be able to get it.
That was more of a financial burden for me than the boots happened to be.
But yeah, and wearing it properly.
You know, we had to wear it with the numeral inside.
you always made sure that you wore it like that.
But just like this one, you know, a new one, although that one had a lot of dark coloring in it as opposed to this one.
But I guess then the proud time really came when you could turn it around.
And when could that be done?
At graduation.
And let me tell you a little bit of story also.
These days, kids want to take 12, 15 hours a semester maybe.
Really, you ought to go back and look at the catalog for 1936 for two degrees in engineering, five-year program.
I believe that the sophomore year, you're required to take 22 hours to include calculus and physics and chemistry.
And a kid across the hall from me, Leland Beard, later my roommate was in that program.
And that kid studied and after his freshman year, I don't think he ever turned out the lights before 11 o'clock.
And then when, and it required summer camp for some of those.
And that conflicted with ROTC summer camp.
And Levalon Beard had been our first sergeant his fourth year, you know, his junior year in ROTC.
And so he should have been battery commander.
But he couldn't go to summer camp for OOTC because engineering summer camps took precedent.
So going to graduation, he goes across the stages to get two degrees.
And the first time he goes across and gets a tube, it's blank, nothing in it.
Goes across the stage the second time for a second degree, blank, nothing in it.
And so you talk about a boy that,
hurried around after that.
He went over and, you haven't been to summer camp or OTC.
You can't get a degree yet.
It was just that simple.
But, you know, five years, two degrees.
He did not fail a course at all.
I doubt that he even made anything less than a C because he was a good student, dedicated student.
But the oil cost and nothing.
Empty tubes.
How much did the ring cost?
Do you remember?
No, I don't remember.
Now, did you buy the ring and the boots at about the same time?
No, I bought the ring before the boots.
Because I could have graduated, could have graduated in January.
of that fifth year.
Do you have any ring stories to share about losing or somebody spotting it at some certain place or somebody noticing you had an Aggie ring on?
I guess the best story is fairly recent.
Her daughter married an Aggie, an architect.
And they were up in, lived up in New Haven, Connecticut, and we went up there to visit them.
This was after her granddaughter was born, and so it had been probably 1971.
And we took off for the weekend driving up
From New Haven, you cross, and this is hard for a Texan to understand, really.
Drove across Connecticut, drove across Massachusetts, and drove up into Vermont a third of the way and spent the night, and you know, we didn't take off until after lunch, and you cross two states and so on.
But we stopped in Massachusetts at a restored house, some restored houses.
And some of the people around there saw Texas license plate and wanted to know where we were from and College Station and where's that Texas A&M.
Oh, there's an Aggie working over here at one of these places.
So we went over there and knocked on the door or the lady that was in charge.
and they'd given us a name and we gave her his name and so he came down in a few minutes and she was still there and son-in-law held up his ring and I held up my ring and then the kid held up his ring.
And in a few minutes the lady came up, can I ask what is all of that business about holding up your hands?
I said, the lady is not holding up her hands, it's showing a ring of each other.
Each of us is from Texas A&M University.
Oh, you know, it was all right, but she could not understand that.
And, you know.
Now, I noticed you were wearing a new ring.
What happened to your old one?
I lost it.
Oh, okay.
Only a few years ago.
And I said to myself for a period of time that, well, a new ring just won't be the same.
And it's not, because the old ring had gone with me through
World War II and through Korea and whatever.
And, but some way or another, I lost it.
I just realized one morning sometime that I didn't have it on and I did without it.
And so yes, I ordered me another one and I picked it up this fall, the same time that the others picked theirs up, November the 18th, the day of the bonfire tragedy.
And so that,
That will remain with me.
You got that one this year?
That one is this year.
November the 18th, 1999, the day of the bonfire tragedy.
All right, now you're mentioning bonfire.
What was bonfire like when you were an undergraduate?
People would just go out and gather up whatever.
logs or lumber and throw it on it, essentially just throw it out there.
And somebody would try to steal somebody's outhouse and put it up on top some way.
I was never there when they were doing that.
I don't know how they would do that.
I'm sure it's just manpower would get it up to essentially the top, and it was, you would kind of detail some freshmen to go out and get,
If you saw a pile of an old lumber somewhere, you would detail some freshmen to go get it and bring it in.
Do you remember as a freshman participating in that?
To some degree like that.
About how much effort do you remember, how many hours do you remember you put in?
Was it a day or two or a month or two?
Oh no, probably a couple of hours, a couple of days.
Probably not more than four hours, probably.
It was not organized at all like it is now.
And it was held on the drill field.
Oh, yeah.
And was the night before the Texas game?
Yeah.
Or two nights before.
If it was now a 10 game.
What about, what do you remember about silver taps for your undergraduate years?
They were, even freshmen stayed up.
And very solemn, very quiet.
You would go with some friends from your outfit, but there was no organized unit attendance.
But you would go with some friends and very, very little talking, even going over to it.
You would just essentially walk together and be there and
Have some thoughts and do an about-face and return home.
Was there any game, did y'all do any pranks or act silly after it was over?
No.
No, the entire ceremony was just, you know.
Do you remember Aggie Muster as an undergraduate?
No.
I didn't, they may have had them, but
I don't remember them as such, no.
I have the impression so far that the muster held on Corregidor changed musters forever.
That World War II had a strong effect on them.
And then the first muster back here in 1946.
And that was five years for us.
And we met at the Bolton House on campus.
Were you here for that?
Yes.
Oh, yes.
Describe that.
Oh, that was a joyous reunion and sad because you would say, well, what about so-and-so?
He didn't make it.
He was killed in Germany or whatever.
And what is it?
I think 96 names of my classmates on the memorial plaque down there.
But it was a very, very happy time, but at the same time sad, but gathering together.
And Preston had invited us to their house on campus.
on the corner of where that parking garage is by Rudder.
Preston Bolton?
Preston Bolton, yeah.
And we brought kids and everything else and went over to Kyle Field and Eisenhower, was he the one here?
I think that's who it was.
I don't remember then, but I do know now that if I attended that again, I would be crying.
I don't remember that I cried at that time because there were just a certain
stillness within me and would not allow it then, but that's gone now.
And there was a huge crowd, wasn't there?
Oh, yes.
Ours was the fifth, but it didn't make any difference.
Everybody came from everywhere that knew anything about it being there.
For many of us, it was the first time that we had seen each other since graduation or whatever, unless we happened to be in the same outfit.
Yes, a huge crowd.
Alright, as you graduate in the spring of 41, as the months go on from September, fall of 39 until you graduate, did you and your buddies talk about what was happening overseas?
Oh yes, it was discussed in ROTC almost on a weekly basis and
I don't remember so much that was in 39-40, but 40-41, yes, specifically.
And it was, and we knew that in ROTC that we would have a, and having a contract, that we would be involved in some military service some way, sooner or later.
And they finally came out and said, I don't remember the exact nature of it, but you could sign up to go now or later.
And in the field artillery, you could,
sign up for even request certain classes to be held up at Fort Sill, Oklahoma.
They were starting the classes and they were held on a, started on a weekly basis and there were three-month courses.
And as I kind of remember, the first class that we could sign up for started on, was class number 12.
And my first priority was class number 12.
My second priority was class number 13.
And my third priority was class number 14.
And I got class number 14.
But I also had put in.